Design new .NET Core Setup/Install area; Rewrite prereqs articles; Add package managers (#15569)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/setup/install-runtime.md

---
title: Install .NET Core runtime on Windows, Linux, and macOS - .NET Core
description: Learn how to install .NET Core on Windows, Linux, and macOS. Discover the dependencies required to run .NET Core apps.
author: thraka
ms.author: adegeo
ms.date: 11/06/2019
ms.custom: "updateeachrelease"
zone_pivot_groups: operating-systems-set-one
---

> # Install the .NET Core Runtime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Install the .NET Core runtime
```

Reviewer 2: @Thraka and I discussed this and I was going to go back to the team on this. I had the same suggestion and deleted.

When referring to .NET Core Runtime as the product, we'd use uppercase. Thoughts?

Author: I added a task to discuss and update these articles with runtime or Runtime, once we figure it out. I'll ping an editor too.

> In this article, you'll learn how to download and install the .NET Core runtime. The .NET Core runtime is used to run apps created with .NET Core.

Reviewer: Is it also called the common language runtime, and should we mention that?

Author: No, in this case it's the product they are downloading. The actual runtime used is called `CoreCLR` (to differentiate it from the .NET Framework CLR) However, I do need to capitalize these references to runtime since it's the product name.

- [.NET Core 2.2 downloads](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/2.2)
- [.NET Core 2.1 downloads](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/2.1)

## Install with an installer

Both Windows and macOS have standalone installers that can be used to install the .NET Core runtime.

- Windows [x64 CPUs](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/thank-you/dotnet-runtime-3.0.0-windows-x64-installer) | [x32 CPUs](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/thank-you/dotnet-runtime-3.0.0-windows-x86-installer)
- macOS [x64 CPUs](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/thank-you/dotnet-runtime-3.0.0-macos-x64-installer)

::: zone pivot="os-linux"

## Install with a package manager

You can install .NET Core with many of the common linux package managers. For more information, see [Linux Package Manager - Install .NET Core](linux-package-manager-rhel7.md).

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="os-windows"

## Install with PowerShell automation

The [dotnet-install scripts](../tools/dotnet-install-script.md) are used for automation and non-admin installs of the runtime. You can download the script from the [dotnet-install script reference page](../tools/dotnet-install-script.md).

> The script defaults to installing the latest [long term support (LTS)](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core) version, which is currently .NET Core 2.1. To install the current release of .NET Core (3.0), run the script with the following switch:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script defaults to installing the latest [long term support (LTS)](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core) version, which is currently .NET Core 2.1. To install a specific version of .NET Core, run the following script, substituting `3.0` as necessary with the desired version:
```

That would get out of date really quickly.

Author: Yes. But since the script doesn't install the latest, I think this needs to be called out. However, I think the majority of all of these articles in this area will be looked at each release. The actual script reference page goes into switch details.

```powershell
dotnet-install.ps1 -Channel 3.0
```

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="os-linux,os-macos"

## Install with bash automation

The [dotnet-install scripts](../tools/dotnet-install-script.md) are used for automation and non-admin installs of the runtime. You can download the script from the [dotnet-install script reference page](../tools/dotnet-install-script.md).

> The script defaults to installing the latest [long term support (LTS)](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core) version, which is currently .NET Core 2.1. To install the current release of .NET Core (3.0), run the script with the following switch:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script defaults to installing the latest [long term support (LTS)](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core) version, which is currently .NET Core 2.1. To install the current release of .NET Core, run the script with the following switch:
```

Users can look elsewhere to find the current version.

Author: I just checked and there is a Current value that can be used. I'll change it! Thanks for bringing this up.

```bash
./dotnet-install.sh -c Current
```

::: zone-end

## Docker

> Containers provide a lightweight way to isolate your application from the rest of the host system, sharing just the kernel, and using resources given to your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Containers provide a lightweight way to isolate your application from the rest of the host system. Containers on the same machine share just the kernel and use resources given to your application.
```
